### Nov 30, 2023

## Class Notes

-

## Reading Notes
### What is a ‘Controlled Component’?

- form element, such as an input field, where the value is controlled by the component's state
- the component's state is where the value of the input field is stored
- The state is the single point of reference for the current value of the input, and any changes to that value are tracked and managed through the state.
- typically done with an event handler

### Should we wait to store the users' responses from the form into state when they submit the form OR should we update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them? Why?

- generally update the state with the user's responses as soon as they enter them rather than waiting for the form submission.
- this is known as "controlled components"

By updating the state in real-time, the React component can re-render with the latest data, providing a more responsive and interactive UX.This enables the component to maintain the current state of the form.

### How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field?

- access the `event` object passed to the event handler. The user's input value can be obtained from `event.target.value`. For example:

```jsx
handleChange = (event) => {
  const userInput = event.target.value;
};
```

In this example, `event.target.value` provides the current value entered by the user in the input field, allowing you to handle and update the component's state accordingly.

## Things I want to learn more about
