### Dec 1, 2023

## Class Notes

-

## Reading Notes

### What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

- Single Responsibility Principle (SRP) is a principle in software design that states a class or module should have only one reason to change, meaning it should have only one responsibility.
- In the context of components, it suggests that a component should have a single responsibility or purpose, making it more modular, maintainable, and easier to understand.

### What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

- creating the user interface without implementing interactive features or dynamic behavior
- rendering the UI with static data, focusing on the visual layout of the components

### Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

- interactivity
- dynamic behavior

This involves introducing state management, event handling, and other mechanisms to make the application respond to user input, fetch and update data for a dynamic UX.

### What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

>- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it isn’t state.
>- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it isn’t state.
>- Can you compute it based on existing state or props in your component? If so, it definitely isn’t state!
>
>Source: [Thinking in React]("https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react)

### How can you identify where state needs to live?
- consider which components need access to and control over the data

By evaluating the components' responsibilities and relationships, you can determine the most appropriate location for state management in your application.

>Often, you can put the state directly into their common parent.
>
>You can also put the state into some component above their common parent.
>
>If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common parent component.
>
>Source: [Thinking in React]("https://react.dev/learn/thinking-in-react)

### What is a “higher-order function”?

- a function that takes one or more functions as arguments
OR
- returns a function as its result

### Explore the `greaterThan` function as defined in the reading [here](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK). In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

```javascript
function greaterThan(n) {
  return m => m > n;
}
let greaterThan10 = greaterThan(10);
console.log(greaterThan10(11));
// → true
```

- returns a function that compares whether a parameter in the inner function `m` is greater than a parameter in the outer function `n`

### Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.

- `map` is a higher-order function that applies a function to each element of an array, creating a new array of the results.

## Things I want to learn more about

