### Nov 28, 2023

## Class Notes

-

## Reading Notes
### Based off the diagram, what happens first, the ‘render’ or the ‘componentDidMount’?

 render

### What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?

constructor

### Put the following things in the order that they happen: componentDidMount, render, constructor, componentWillUnmount, React Updates

1. Constructor
2. Render
3. ComponentDidMount
4. React Updates
5. ComponentWillUnmount

### What does componentDidMount do?

componentDidMount
- lifecycle method invoked right after a component is inserted into the DOM
- commonly used to trigger network requests, initialize subscriptions, or perform actions that require access to the DOM or external data sources

### What types of things can you pass in the props?

- data in props, including strings, numbers, booleans, functions, objects, and React elements.

### What is the big difference between props and state?

- props are passed into a component and are immutable
- state is managed within a component and can be updated

### When do we re-render our application?

- when there is a change in state or props
- React components automatically re-render when their state or props change.

### What are some examples of things that we could store in state?
- User input (form data)
- UI-related information (like toggles, modals, etc.)
- Data fetched asynchronously from a server
- Any dynamic data that may change during the component's lifecycle.

## Things I want to know more about
