### Dec 14, 2023

## Class Notes

-

## Reading Notes

### What occurred during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

- the personal computer revolution in the 1980s

### Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

- The early exposure influenced educational paths and career choices leading to a male-dominated culture within the computer science field.

### When are diversity efforts most successful?

Diversity efforts are most successful when they are ingrained in the organization's culture, supported by leadership, and go beyond mere representation. Successful diversity initiatives focus on creating an inclusive environment, ensuring equal opportunities, and fostering a sense of belonging for individuals from various backgrounds.

### Why do diverse companies perform better?

- Diverse teams bring a variety of perspectives to find more creative and innovative solutions.

- Diversity empowers agility to handle changing global markets and diverse customer needs.

- Inclusive workplaces are great for employee satisfaction and productivity so employees are more likely to take ownership in overall company success.

### Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vice versa.

- by having employees that represent the demographic diversity of its users.
- if a company's customers are in various countries, the employees should be familiar with the different cultures, languages and norms.

## Things I want to learn more about
