### Dec 7, 2023

## Class Notes

-

## Reading Notes

### What is functional programming?

- involves computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions instead of changing state

### What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?

- given the same inputs, it will always produce the same output
- doesn't modify external state or rely on external state
- check if it meets these criteria and doesn't have observable side effects

### What are the benefits of a pure function?

The benefits of pure functions include:
- Predictability - given the same inputs, a pure function always produces the same output
- Testability - easier to test since there are no hidden dependencies or side effects
- Concurrency - facilitates parallel execution without concerns about shared mutable state
- Debugging - easier to reason about and debug

### What is immutability?

- a concept in functional programming where once an object is created, it can't be changed
- Instead of modifying existing data structures, new ones are created, preserving the original state.

### What is Referential transparency?

- a property of functions in functional programming where a function call can be replaced with its resulting value without changing the program's behavior
- enhances clarity, reasoning, and optimization opportunities in code

### What is a module?

- a self-contained and reusable piece of software that encapsulates related functionality
- refers to a file containing code that can be reused in other parts of the program

### What does the word ‘require’ do?

- In Node.js, the `require` keyword is used to include (import) a module into the current file. Its part of the CommonJS module system used by Node.js for organizing and reusing code.

### How do we bring another module into the file that we are working in?

- To bring another module into the current file, we use the `require` function followed by the path to the module. For example:
```javascript
const myModule = require('./myModule');
```

### What do we have to do to make a module available?

- export its functionality using `module.exports`

- then `require` in another file to access `myFunction` from `myModule.js`

## Things I want to learn more about
- Pure functions. "- given the same inputs, it will always produce the same output" - not following how this is different.
- Referential transparency
