### Class 34

## Class Notes

[API Quick Start](https://github.com/codefellows/python-401-api-quickstart) - skeleton project with tools we’ve been using in class

Process for using a template

- Button on repo to Use this template (not fork)
- Create a new repository
  - Checkout codespace when I have time (not always free)
  - create and grab link
- `gh repo clone` link
- cd into it
- code .
- make and activate venv
  - `python3 -m venv .venv`
  - `source .venv/bin/activate`
- `pip install -r requirements.txt`

- customize template
  - search and replace as appropriate
- environment
  - .env file must be NOT at root but at project file level right with settings.py
    - generate secret key with django
      - not in venv running
        - python3 -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe())"
      - or in venv
        - python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe())"
    - won't work if curly quotes. be sure to use straight quotes
- make migrations
  - `python manage.py makemigrations [name]`
  - `python manage.py migrate`
- run
  - `python manage.py runserver`

Add ElephantSQL db instead of local dev server

- create instance - uses postgres
- change out DATABASE items in .env for Details on Elephant instance

```python
# the next two came from ElephantSQL instance Details User & Default Database
DATABASE_NAME=jozvouvl
DATABASE_USER=jozvouvl
DATABASE_PASSWORD=password
# the next one is from ElephantSQL instance Details Server
DATABASE_HOST=bubble.db.elephantsql.com
```

- stop server
- `pip install psycopg2-binary`
  - `pip freeze > requirements.txt`

Changing database means need to re- migrate

- apply migrations
  - do not need to make them again because when makemigrations is run, python code that persists is genterated
  - `python manage.py migrate` will migrate to the new server - will go a little more slowly because not migrating on local machine, but in northern CA or VA or where ever chosen in Elephant instance.
Create superuser
- `python manage.py createsuperuser`
- `python manage.py runserver`

CF:
Modify your application paying close attention to the instructions in README.md found in root of repository.
Install from requirements.txt.
Export (aka freeze) requirements.
Change things app folder to be cookie_stands
Go through code base looking for Thing,thing and things change to cookie-stand related names.
E.g. Thing model becomes CookieStand
E.g. ThingList becomes CookieStandList
Pro Tip: Do a global text search looking for thing
Search should be case insensitive.
WARNING: Do NOT just cut and paste. Think through each change carefully.
Create/rename .env using .env.sample as starting point.
Here’s a handy way to generate a secret key
python -c “import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe())”

CORS

- cross origin resource sharing

## Reading Notes

### What are the key principles to follow when organizing and configuring Django settings for a project, according to the “Django Settings Best Practices” reading?

- keep settings in env variables for security and flexibility
- provide default values for production configurations, except for secret keys and tokens
- avoid hardcoding sensitive settings and do not commit them to version control
- organize settings into distinct groups
  - Django-related, third-party, and project-specific settings
- adhere to naming conventions for custom project settings, use a prefix with the project name

### How does the White Noise library contribute to the efficient serving of static files in a Django application, and what are the steps to integrate it into a project?

- White Noise allows web apps to serve their own static files, making them faster and more reliable
- it simplifies the configuration of static file storage and efficiently handles caching, compression, and serving files
- to integrate White Noise, install the package, add it to the MIDDLEWARE settings, and configure STATICFILES_STORAGE

### What is the purpose of Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) in web applications, and how can it be implemented and configured in a Django project to control access to resources?

- CORS is a security feature that allows or restricts resources on a web server to be requested from another domain
- it is used to secure web applications by specifying which domains are permitted to access resources
- to implement CORS in Django, use a package like `django-cors-headers`, add it to installed apps, and configure `CORS_ORIGIN_WHITELIST` to control access

## Things I want to learn more about
