### Class 36


## Class Notes


## Reading Notes

### What are the key pieces of advice mentioned in the "Whiteboard Advice" reading assignment for successfully tackling whiteboard interviews? [Advice]() article
- whiteboard interview could be on a piece of paper
- ask about test cases that the solution should pass
  - use cases/ test cases - think of the tests it will have to pass
  - shows I know about testing/ how to write/pass tests
> If you’re having trouble along the way, it’s not illegal to ask for some help. Just phrase it conversationally. For example:
  > “I’m a bit stuck here, do you have any tips to nudge me in the right direction?”"
- communicate all throughout the interview process
- restate the question to ensure understanding
- inquire about edge cases to demonstrate analytical thinking
- check logic with interviewer before writing actual code
- when stuck, don't hesitate to ask for help or hints


### From the “6 tips to ace a whiteboard programming interview” article, can you identify and explain at least two strategies that can help improve your performance during a whiteboard programming interview?

[7 Tips](https://medium.com/@steve_45636/6-tips-to-ace-a-whiteboard-programming-interview-f06c1b378bc6) article

Take a minute to think silently for concentrated thought
- “Okay, got it. If it’s okay with you, I’m just going to take a minute or two here and think about the problem, and then I’ll start talking.”
- "Shut your eyes, stare at the ceiling, scribble on the whiteboard — whatever it takes. Think through the basics of the problem, and decide on an approach. Then re-engage the interviewer"

(paywall here so couldn't finish article)

### What does Gayle McDowell say about interview preparation in the Engineering Interview Process Deconstructed video?

> Know basic data structures and algorithms really well.
- If you feel comfortable with those you will feel more confident.


## Things I want to learn more about

