### Oct 23, 2023

## Bits of advice from CF team: 
- Prepare to fail. It's part of learning.
- Failure is an event not a person.
- Press the "I believe button"
- Take it one day at a time.
- You'll get good at it, and the it will forever keep changing. Never stops.
- Let comparisons go and be inspired from the people around you. 
- Its about pressing through together.
- Do not suffer in silence.
     - How to ask for help: 1, what was supposed to happen, 2, what is happening, 3, how can I help?
- Spaghetti code. Make it work. Sr. dev is red line.
- I'm going to swim in jello today! - John Cokos on embracing growth mindset.
- Sometimes the best way to lead is to be lead.
## Goal
Be a positive light in my class. Through it all.

###Course tips: 
- Always stay current. Turn in, get critical feedback, one more iteration, turn in, then move on.
- Most days: Reading, Lab, Journal. Sometimes quizes and other.  
- For wireframe in 201 miro +, for whiteboard interviews invisionapp +
- Leave comments in code for Kim as though she's my coworker coming in for the night shift. 
- This week do well done reading and well done notes and get rhythm with Kim and Brandon so when it gets hard we're already in the ggrroove.
- Time sensitive comments to Kim: Slack is better. A submit or resubmit on Canva followed by a ping on Slack.
- Late assignments auto 20% knock.
- Assignments are locked 10 days after due.
- Can put personal notes that affect labs in reading journal so that Kim and John know. Communicate on time, don't wait until late.

## Class Notes

#### Command line commands in terminal 
pwd -change working directory
cd -change directory
ls -list
ls -l -list long view
cat -concatenate, gives contents of the file
touch - opens file
.. - moves back one
../.. - moves back two
name/nameoffile - takes to file, space autofills

when in github in terminal, yellow x means have made changes. 

Finder is an app. to get to Terminal command space then terminal
All the things you can do in the menu bar, can do in terminal
Q - how does John do that magnifiying glass for small text, lol. Need to get that. 

index file - Entry point

#### Input, process, output
- IPO

local host - me
server - has something to show
client - wants to see something

semantic html is html that tags refer to the content in it

javascript - language for asking user questions 
variable - storing something for use later
to get to console.log - command + optoin + j 
string method 'lets you do things to things' . 
Adding strings together is called concatenation

<!--
Ex javascript
<script>
     let name = "lana";
     console.log(xyz);

     but that's not input process output IPO

     string method would be like 
     let name = name.toUpperCase();

     example concatenation would be like
     alert("Nice to meet you, " + name);

</script> 
-->