
### Oct 30, 2023

## Class Notes


## Reading Notes

### How would you describe an object to a non-technical friend you grew up with?
- an object is like a container that holds related information and actions.
- examples: toy box with different toys, or cupboard with different foods.
- then each thing in there has names and you can do different things with them.

### What are some advantages to creating object literals?
- organize related data and functions together
- makes it easier to manage and reuse code
- digital tool box, combining tools for a specific task in one place

### How do objects differ from arrays?
- objects - labeled containers to store info with names (properties)
- arrays - ordered lists to store data with numbers as their positions (indices).
- compare to organize a collection on a shelf (array) versus putting items in different boxes with labels (objects)

### Give an example for when you would need to use bracket notation to access an object’s property instead of dot notation.
- use bracket when property name contains special characters or spaces, ex: `myObject["property name with spaces"]`

### Evaluate the code below. What does the term `this` refer to, and what is the advantage of using `this`?
- refers to the current object, which is "dog" in this code
- allows the code to work for any object with the same structure


### What is the DOM?
-Document Object Model - a programming interface for web documents
- It represents the structure and content of a web page allowing JavaScript and others to interact with and change content.

### Briefly describe the relationship between the DOM and JavaScript.
- JavaScript is used to access and modify the DOM.
- JavaScript code can be used to change the content, structure, and styling of a web page in real-time, making web pages interactive and dynamic.

### What’s the difference between primitive values and object references in JavaScript?
- Primitive values - simple data types like numbers, strings, and booleans, and they are stored directly in memory.
    - dealing with the actual value
- Object references - point to complex data structures like objects and arrays, which are stored in memory
    - Allow you to access and manipulate the data structures
    - working with a pointer or reference to the value in memory.

## Things I want to know more about
how these work -- guessing that's what we'll do in class :) 
