
### Oct 26, 2023

## Class Notes

Lab 5a process:
Make a repo from the template
  1. Clone it --- only do first time, skip after
  2. Create a branch called question-1 --- git checkout -b branch-one
  3. Do teh work for question 1
  4. ACP to quesion-1 branch
  5. Go to github make a PR
  6. Approve and Merge the PR
  7. On. your machine, switch back to main --- git checkout main
  8. Pull main
  9. ... rinse and repeat




let bald = true;
if(bald)
  console.log("No hair");
  console.log("second line");


function checkYesNo(question, correctAnswer){
  let userAnswer = prompt(question);
  let normalilzedAnswer = userAnswer.toLowerCase();

  if (normalilzedAnswer.startsWith('y') && correctAnswer === 'yes'){
    rightAnswers++;
    return true;
  } else if (normalilzedAnswer.startsWith('n')&& correctAnswer === 'no'){
    rightAnswers++;
    return true;
  } else {
    alert('Sorry, that was incorrect');
    return false;
  }
}

checkYesNo("Is ...", "He sure is", "yes");
checkYesNo("Is ..., "I think so too", "yes");

// DRY it out - means don't repeat yourself
// if yes and y OR no and n

// can replace else if
if (
    (normalizedAnswer.startsWith('y') && correctAnswer === 'yes') ||
    (normalizedAnswer.startsWith('n') && correct Answer === 'no');
)

## Reading Notes

#### html

### What is a real-world use case for the alt attribute being used in a website?
a crypto currency markets website could use the alt attribute to help users understand the content of images like graphs

### How can you improve accessibility of images in an HTML document?
- meaningful and concise alt text
- good contrast between content like images and background
- descriptive file names for images
- semantic elements for context
- ARIA attributes for complex images

### Provide an example of when the figure element would be useful in an HTML document.
- when an image, diagram, or chart needs a caption or description

### Describe the difference between a gif image and an svg image, pretend you are explaining to an elder in your community.
- GIF - shows a series of images running through them all fast to create an animation
- SVG
  - you can zoom in or out without losing quality
  - good for logos

### What image type would you use to display a screenshot on your website and why?
PNG
- 'lossless compression' - retains high image quality
- can make transparent background

#### css

### Describe the difference between foreground and background colors of an HTML element, pretend you are talking to someone with no technical knowledge.
- foreground color - the font, the color of the words on a page
- background color - color of the thing the words are written on

### Your friend asks you to give his colorless blog website a touch up. How would you use color to give his blog some character?
- ask him about the colors he would like for the text  and the background
- Suggest color pallates that are great for accessibility and show him some examples using a resource like color picker or canva pro or existing blogs
- use the color and background-color css elements to add them

### What should you consider when choosing fonts for an HTML document?
- readability
- style to match the feel of the content
- don't use too many different fonts, two or three fonts is good

### What do font-size, font-weight, and font-style do to HTML text elements?
- Font-size - sizes text, makes it smaller or bigger
- Font-weight - changes the thickness or boldness
- Font-style alters appearance, makes italic or normal for example

### Describe two ways you could add spacing around the characters displayed in an h1 element.
- adjusting the letter-spacing in CSS, increasing space between all characters
- padding property to create space around the element itself, pushing other elements away from it

## Things I want to know more about
- pros and cons of using an out of the box site verses making and upkeeping own sites in my particular use case (i.e. replacing Squarespace and Wix)
