### Nov 3, 2023

## Class Notes

-

## Reading Notes

### Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error.
- Syntax Error
   - occur during the compilation or interpretation phase
   - caused by violations of the programming language's rules
   - can be
   - The code with syntax errors often won't execute or compile at all.

- Logic Error
   - make the code not work as it runs from flawed logic or incorrect algorithms in the code
   - if it works it doesn't do what supposed to do

### List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them.
- syntax - missing or misplaced punctuation, incorrect variable names, or unmatched parentheses
  - use the developer console to find or look for squigglies in VS
- null - missing data
- logic - closely comparing to code review or lecture demos and finding mistakes in logic or plugging my code into chatgpt for feedback


### How will this topic continue to influence your long-term goals?
- inevitable that I'll make mistakes!
- be sure I keep working on it until I have great code
- improving problem-solving skills in dev and other areas of my life

### How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development?
-  allows you to stop your program at specific points and inspect what's going on step by step
- helps you find issues

### Define what a breakpoint is.
- like a marker you place in your code, telling the debugger to pause execution at that point so you can investigate what's happening
- like a road sign / stop sign

### What is the call stack?
- keeps track of where your program is, like a stack of papers when you open the mail - you pay the top bill and then move on to the next one.

## Things I want to know more about
- call stacks and how they work
