### Nov 2, 2023

## Class Notes

Input fields
  - lots of different ways to do same thing
  - all have input, select, textarea
Properties
- id - unique
- name - names the field uniquely
- placeholder - preview text
- value - real value (actual text)
- disabled - dims it out and you can't type into it

Forms
- id
- submit data to the server
  - reloads the page from the server by default
  -With JavaScript, we can intercept reload and process the form data in JS

Check files are connected
- 'proof of life'
- something simple like
  - background color to check css
  - hello world in console.log for js check


person.addEventListener("change", function(event) {
  console.log(event.target.value);
});

Constructors
- function with a Capital means it is a constructor
      function Chat(){
          this.chats = [];
          this.chatter = ""; // the person who is typing
          this.message = ""; //the thing they typed
      }

    const chatApp - new Chat ();


    person.add


## Reading Notes

### Why are forms so important in web development?
- they provide a way for users to
  - submit data
  - log in
  - make purchases
  - fill out surveys
  - etc.

### When designing a form, what are some key things to keep in mind when it comes to user experience?
- clear and concise labels
- logical organization of fields
- user-friendly error messages
- appropriate input types
- responsive design for different devices

### List 5 form elements and explain their importance.
   - `<input>`- captures text, numbers, or selections
   - `<textarea>` - multi-line text input for longer messages or comments
   - `<select>` - dropdown menus for selecting options
   - `<radio>` and `<checkbox>` - to make single or multiple selections from a list for multiple-choice
   - `<button>` - form submission or triggering specific actions to make the form interactive and functional


### How would you describe events to a non-technical friend?
- notifications or triggers that happen when something else happens
  - button clicked
  - key being pressed
  - page finishes loading
  - etc. They are what makes a website dynamic and interactive.

### When using the addEventListener() method, what 2 arguments will you need to provide?
- The type of event you want to listen for (like "click" or "keydown")
- and the function that should run when the event occurs.

### Describe the event object. Why is the target within the event object useful?
- contains info about the event that occurred
  - like type of event
  - where it happened on the page
  - or additional data related to the event

The `target` property within the event object points to the specific element that triggered the event to identify which element initiated the action and responds accordingly.

### What is the difference between event bubbling and event capturing?
- They are two phases in the event propagation process
  - Event bubbling - starts from the target element and goes up to the root (document)
  - Event capturing - starts from the root and goes down to the target.
This order affects the sequence that event handlers are executed when the event occurs.

## Things I want to learn more about
- .push
  - push a thing through an array in a function
- how do I know when a thing can be done because javascript has it already verses when I have to create it
