### Oct 31, 2023

## Class Notes


## Reading Notes

#### dom

### Explain why we need domain modeling:
- creates a structured representation of a problem domain for better communication
- provides a foundation for designing and building software
- modeling can better reflect real-world needs and requirements for more successful outcomes in software development projects
- acts as a bridge between the abstract problem domain and the concrete software solution for better understanding of complex systems, better collaboration with team members, better facilitation of software applications.

#### html

### Why should tables not be used for page layouts?
- they were originally designed for displaying tabular data, not for creating the structure and layout of web pages
- accessibility issues, limited flexibility, and difficulties in maintaining and styling web content

### List and describe 3 different semantic HTML elements used in an HTML <table>:

- thread - Table Header - groups and defines the header content of a table
- typically contains one or more `<tr>` (table row) elements that contain header cells `<th>`.
- helps screen readers and search engines identify the header section of a table

- tbody - Table Body - groups and defines the main content of a table
- can contain multiple `<tr>` elements, each representing a row of data
- provides clear and semantic structure to tables

- tfoot - Table Footer - groups and defines footer content of a table
- summary or aggregate data
- like the thead, it can havve one or more `<tr>` elements with footer cells `<td>` or `<th>`
- conveys the semantic meaning of the table's footer section

#### js

### What is a constructor and what are some advantages to using it?
- special function for creating and initializing objects

### How does the term "this" differ when used in an object literal versus when used in a constructor?
- in object literal
  - "this" refers to the object iteslf representing the current instance of the object where it is used
  - points to the object it's defined within.

- in a constructor
  - "this" refers to the new instance of the object that is being created
  - "this" points to the object that is under construction

### Explain prototypes and inheritance via an analogy from your previous work experience.
For strategy consulting, I have made templates. These include project charter deck, timelines, work flows, meeting notes templates, deliverable deck templates and more. These are like a protoype.

For each client, I use the template carrying through my company's brand elements, processes and general knowledge of strategy work and adjust as needed to customize for the particular project. This is like inheritance.
