### Nov 9, 2023

## Class Notes

-

## Reading Notes
### What are three key factors that contribute to psychologically safe teams?

Three key factors contributing to psychologically safe teams are:
- Trust - Trust among team members fosters an environment where individuals feel comfortable sharing ideas, expressing opinions, and taking risks without fear of judgment.
- Open Communication - Teams with open communication encourage everyone to voice their thoughts, concerns, and feedback freely, leading to a more collaborative and inclusive atmosphere.
- Respectful and Inclusive Culture - A culture that values diversity, inclusion, and mutual respect creates an environment where team members feel accepted and supported contributing to psychological safety.

### Evaluate, with details, a previous professional setting (or team) you were in with regards to psychological safety.

- At a company I was doing strategy contracting with last year, the core team (full time employees) were getting laid off. This was a very uncomfortable situation to be a contractor in, as my work ended around the same time their jobs did, but my departure was expected and theirs was not. It put a very tense dynamic on the team. As members of the team and the leader of the team came to work each day, we all used open communication channels. The culture of mutual respect continued for everyone and I listened a lot as the full time team worked through their emotions alongside completing the work. Team members were encouraged to express their opinions openly and were given space to be human. This environment stayed healthy all the way to the end, and we have even gotten together after for professional happy hour gatherings to keep in touch and network. Its meaningful to me that they include me in the close network since I was an outside contractor in the company during that difficult time.

### What impact do teams that operate with a high degree of psychological safety have on their company and the team members?

Teams operating with a high degree of psychological safety have a positive impact on both the company and team members.
- Team members feel free to share creative ideas without fear of criticism
  - this makes a more innovative and dynamic work environment
  - and is more fun!
- sense of belonging and engagement
  - contributing to higher job satisfaction and retention rates
- open communication allows teams to address challenges collectively
  - more effective problem-solving and decision-making
- collaborate more effectively all utilizing their own and each others' strengths
- team members feel valued and more satisfied with work


## Things I want to learn more about 
