
### Oct 26, 2024

## Class Notes 


## Reading Notes

#### html

### To create a basic link, we wrap text or other content inside what element?
a - anchor 

### The href attribute contains what information?
the URL - Uniform Resource Locator or web address that the link should navigate to when clicked.

### What are some ways we can ensure links on our pages are accessible to all readers?
- descriptive link text 
- semantic HTML elements for links not non-semantic elements like `<div>` or `<span`
- alternative text for linked images using the `alt` attribute.
- keyboard shortcuts so can use with keyboard only 
- ARIA - Accessible Rich Internet Applications attributes for accessibility info
- user test with users of varying abilities to identify and address accessibility issues

#### css

### What is meant by “normal flow”?
- the default positioning and arrangement of elements on a web page
- e lements are laid out vertically in a block formatting, one below the other with block-level elements creating new lines.

### What are a few differences between block-level and inline elements?
- Block-level elements: 
    - create a new block formatting context
    - start on a new line
    - expand to fill the available width  
- inline elements 
    - within the content
    - do not create new lines 
    - only take up as much width as necessary

### ___ positioning is the default for every HTML element.
Static

### Name a few advantages to using absolute positioning on an element.
- precise control over the element's placement 
- ability to layer elements 
- elements being removed from the normal flow 
- good for more creative and complex layouts

### What is a key difference between fixed positioning and absolute positioning?
- fixed positioning - positioned relative to the viewport, and they stay in the same position even when the page is scrolled
- absolute positioning - positioned relative to the nearest positioned parent and move with the content when the page is scrolled

#### js

#### Describe the difference between a function declaration and a function invocation.
- declaration - defines the function by specifying
    - name
    - parameters
    - the code to be executed
- invocation - calling or executing that function to perform a specific task

### What is the difference between a parameter and an argument?
A parameter is a variable or placeholder listed in the function's definition, used to accept values passed to the function when it is called. An argument, on the other hand, is an actual value or expression that is passed to the function when it is invoked, which corresponds to the parameters within the function.

#### pair programming

### Pick 2 benefits to pair programming and reflect on how these benefits could help you on your coding journey.
- peer learning from fellow students 
    - could help me because I have A LOT to learn
    - and could teach me that I also have something to teach... if that is the case, which would feel great if so! 
- work environment readiness
    - experience for myself how the tech industry often does training for new dev hires


## Want to wnderstand more

- ++ - will watch that video again
- play around with css more to understand what common elements do, use some inline elements like columns
- when I'm writing code, be able to automatically know when I'm declaring and invoking the functions