### Oct 23, 2023

## Class Notes
See [mindset](201/201-00-mindset.md) for tips from CF team in welcome session.

#### Command line commands in terminal
pwd -change working directory
cd -change directory
ls -list
ls -l -list long view
cat -concatenate, gives contents of the file
touch - opens file
.. - moves back one
../.. - moves back two
name/nameoffile - takes to file, space autofills

when in github in terminal, yellow x means have made changes.

Finder is an app. to get to Terminal command space then terminal
All the things you can do in the menu bar, can do in terminal
Q - how does John do that magnifiying glass for small text, lol. Need to get that.

index file - Entry point

#### Input, process, output
- IPO

local host - me
server - has something to show
client - wants to see something

semantic html is html that tags refer to the content in it

javascript - language for asking user questions
variable - storing something for use later
to get to console.log - command + optoin + j
string method 'lets you do things to things' .
Adding strings together is called concatenation

<!--
Ex javascript
<script>
     let name = "lana";
     console.log(xyz);

     but that's not input process output IPO

     string method would be like
     let name = name.toUpperCase();

     example concatenation would be like
     alert("Nice to meet you, " + name);

</script>
-->


## Reading Assignment

### Compose a short poem describing how HTTP sends data between computers.
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) sends data using rules and packets.

I want this cookie.
You can have that cookie
I'll send you the ingredients
Then you bake the cookie
Then you will have the same cookie I made.



### Describe how HTML, CSS, and JS files are “parsed” in the browser.
First html, then css, then js last.


### How can you find images to add to a Website?

Search open-source images or use your own. Unsplash is a great site for images.


### How do you create a String vs a Number in JavaScript?
String is words and has to be in " " or ' ' or ``````. A number is a nubmer with digits (not words). This would work 5, this would not five.

### What is a Variable and why are they important in JavaScript?
a container that stores something for reuse

## Things I want to know more about
I want to get more used to using terminal.

### What is an HTML attribute?
modifies or describes an element

### Describe the Anatomy of an HTMl element.
<opening tag, content, closing tag>

### What is the Difference between <article> and <section> element tags?
article is stand alone, section is a grouping

### What Elements does a “typical” website include?
html, head, title, style (if css), script (if js), body, header, main, footer
also things like links, lists, paragraphs, headings

### How does metadata influence Search Engine Optimization?
tells the search engines what is in the page

### How is the <meta> HTML tag used when specifying metadata?
in the head

### What is the first step to designing a Website?
Determine what you want to accomplish with the website.
Define your goals for the website.

### What is the most important question to answer when designing a Website?
What do I want to accomplish?

### Why use h1 element not <span> element to display h1
Only one h1, better for SEO.

### What are the benefits of using semantic tags in our HTML?
*Source: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Semantics

-Search engines will consider its contents as important keywords to influence the page's search rankings (see SEO)

-Screen readers can use it as a signpost to help visually impaired users navigate a page

-Finding blocks of meaningful code is significantly easier than searching through endless divs with or without semantic or namespaced classes

-Suggests to the developer the type of data that will be populated

-Semantic naming mirrors proper custom element/component naming

### Describe 2 things that require JavaScript in the Browser?
Dynamic content - user interaction
Image annimation - moving images

### How can you add JavaScript to an HTML document?
Connect the file to the html file by adding <script> tag with the path to the file.
