### Nov 1, 2023

## Class Notes
#### Vocab Review
- objects -
- methods -
- arrays -
- inside a function greet (name )
  - name is a parameter
  - greet is funcion name
  - Input, Process, Output
    - input - parameter
    - process -
    - output - return
- operators
  - +, -, =, ==, ===, ++ +=, -=, <, >
- conditionals
  - && and
  - || or
  - !==  not equal to
  - Main conditionals statement we use - if this then that
    - if { -- has to be boolean true -- } - do it
    - else { false } - otherwise
  - For loop
    - for (let i=0; i<10; i++) { --- when i<10 returns false, then loop stops running }
    - runs until for no longer
    - good for running through arrays
    - good for running through when you know the number
  - While loop
    - while (x < 10) { --- }
      - runs as long as condition is true
      - condition in this case is 9
    - good for when you need to keep going until user gets it right
      - game logic
      - passwords

- Flexbox
  - everything is a box!
  - directions
    - Row - boxes inside it go left/right
      - how the children render
    - Column - boxes inside it stack


## Reading Notes

### Flexbox is designed for one-dimensional content. Explain what this means.
- to arrange content in either a horizontal or vertical direction to simplify one-dimensional layout

### Explain the difference between the main axis and cross axis.
- main axis - primary layout direction
- cross axis
  - perpendicular to main
  - used for alignment

### How can using certain properties of flexbox negatively impact accessibility?
- can potentially disrupt content comprehension for users with disabilities
  - properties like `order` change item order for layout and can mess up screen readers and keyboard navigation

### What are some advantages of using flexbox over float?
- flexbox advantages
  - easier vertical and horizontal alignment
  - more predictable behavior in complex layouts
  - centering and distribution of space among elements is easier than float

### How does this topic connect with your long-term goals?
- stay up to date with tech
- understand and use the latest tools like flexbox to make things I'm doing for my company or clients better
-

## Things I want to know more about
- If I could now with the skills I have now totally duplicate my Squarespace and Wix websites or what other skills/tools I would need. Seems like I almost could now but (with a lot of work of course) except for maybe the flow with forms and integrations.
